---
title: Slow cooking a novel
layout: default
---

# {{page.title}}

For about a decade now, I have wanted to participate in [National Novel
Writing Month](http://www.nanowrimo.org/) (NaNoWriMo). It's not because my adult
self aspires to become a great writer of fiction, but because that is what my
childhood dream was. In a weird twist of irony, I *have* become a professional
writer, but certainly not the kind that I had dreamed of becoming as a boy.

Of course, there are other reasons why I wish I could do NaNoWriMo, some of
which are even practical. I feel like I always learn a lot from large scale
projects, and that they occupy my mind in a way that gives me a sense of purpose
and drive. Now that I get to work on studying programming and playing with ideas
in code AS MY JOB, I am left with the desire to work on non-programming related
projects too. I don't want to do this for money, or for fame, but just for a
personal sense of satisfaction and joy.

But if I'm honest to myself, I know I'll never do NaNoWriMo. It's intense, and
it requires a huge commitment, and at an earlier stage in my life that would be
exactly what attracted me to it. But these days, I've got a baby boy to take
care of, and a small business to nurture and grow. Knocking out 6-10 pages of
content a day is just impossible for me, especially because I'm already writing
daily to put food on the table.

So what can I do? Well, I guess I can try to write a novel in tiny chunks,
putting in about 30 minutes a day. I have no idea whether that will work or not,
but I have the feeling it might. Here's why: I used to write all my Practicing
Ruby articles in all-nighters and weekend benders in which I poured 10-20 hours
into my drafts all at once, and I thought that is what it meant to "write". But
a year of retraining myself has taught me how to do that kind of work in just an
hour or two of effort each day. If I can do that and still meet my deadlines,
who's to say I can't write a book that way?

Of course, this really does sound like the kind of thing I'll work on for three
days and then just give up on. But to help motivate me, I'm doing my work in a
Google doc that you can check from time to time and see if I've made progress.
I'm fairly certain that the writing will be dreadful, as I'm no fiction writer,
but it is an interesting experiment nonetheless.

Here's a [link to the manuscript][manuscript] if you want to bookmark it and check back from
time to time. If I do make any good headway, I'm sure I'll post some more
updates here about the project. If you don't hear from me again about this,
well... then you can probably guess what happened. :-)

[manuscript]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TPqcD4TlO5ye4H78cLYXYzd7O62n1iR49EtWKM_KLfg/edit?usp=sharing 
